---
layout: default
title: 2020 CF Workshop
---

# 2020 CF Workshop

The 2020 CF Workshop will be virtual on 9-11 June 2020.
The meeting will run for only 3 hours on each day, 16:00 to 19:00 UTC,
and will be followed by a short purely social time for those who can, and want to, stay on.

**Registration**

Please [register](https://forms.gle/RoKHT4h8hnBN23Pk7) so we can get an idea
of the numbers of participants. There is, of course, no fee!
The registration form also asks you to express your interest in the
Current Discussion Topics sessions that will be discussed in the breakout sessions
on day 2 and 3. Please select as many of these as are of interest, even though the discussions
are happening in parallel, as it will be useful to have a rough idea of numbers for each session.

The list of discussion topics and a link to a
[document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urPWngzDCuHTrfpA8nedGoRDVKXs5OmjqO8M6i3UZJM/edit)
that contains a very short summary of each topic is available below and on the registration
form to help you decide which one, or ones, you might like to discuss.
Many thanks to everyone who compiled it at short notice.

**Participation Information**

Connection details for the opening plenary session: <https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/9636813552?pwd=VTFudW5iQ0M2VWFRSFpFV215YUZ4QT09>

You can find the dial-in details for each plenary and breakout session inside the "Questions/Discussion" Google Docs linked next to each session's heading in the meeting agenda. These may also be accessed through the [2020 CF Workshop Google drive
folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1LzgP7wwSzz55giCVZyk-4xiu28gp68Fg).

**Online Meeting Etiquette**
* Please include your complete name and institution in Video Conference platform display name:
  FirstName LastName (Institution)
* By default, keep your microphone muted unless you are speaking.
  To preserve bandwidth, please keep the camera off unless speaking.
* If you have a question or comment, please use the Google Doc that is linked
  to the session to type your question/comment.
  Please be succinct in both your questions and answers.

**Suggestions, Comments on the agenda**

Please make suggestion or comments on the CF Discuss GitHub repo "The 2020 CF Workshop"
issue ([#53](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/53)).

Thanks for their support to:
 - [University of Cantabria](https://web.unican.es/en/)
 - [IS-ENES3](https://is.enes.org/) which is funded by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 824084
 - [EUMETSAT](https://www.eumetsat.int/)

## Questions, Discussion and note taking during the meeting

The **[2020 CF Workshop Google drive
folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1LzgP7wwSzz55giCVZyk-4xiu28gp68Fg)**
contains the presentations and the Google Docs that will be a
forum for asking questions and for general comment and
discussion. Each breakout topic has its own sub-folder in
which there is a Google Doc for notes; and any useful materials can be uploaded.
The relevant documents and sub-folders for each session are linked from the agenda.

In the plenary session presentations, questions can be asked and
commented on by everyone in the Google Doc, and then these can be
verbally discussed with the presenter and everyone afterwards.

## Agenda

### Tuesday, 9 June 2020 - Governance
**16:00 UTC - Welcome and Introductions (David Hassell) [Questions/Discussion](2020-Workshop/CF-meeting-2020-discussion-topics.pdf)**
* A brief introduction to CF-netCDF

**16:15 - CF Standard Names (Alison Pamment) [Questions/Discussion](2020-Workshop/CF-meeting-2020-discussion-topics.pdf)**
* Overview - What are standard names?
* Process, Creation, Tracking

**17:30 - Governance (Ethan Davis) [Questions/Discussion](2020-Workshop/CF-meeting-2020-discussion-topics.pdf)**
* Community
* Constitution, Governance Panel, and Committee(s)
* Contributors
* Process: Conventions Document and Website

**18:15 - Process Demo and Q&A (Daniel Lee) [Questions/Discussion](2020-Workshop/CF-meeting-2020-discussion-topics.pdf)**

**19:00 - Adjourn to Virtual Social Hour + [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/9636813552?pwd=VTFudW5iQ0M2VWFRSFpFV215YUZ4QT09)**
* Virtual Social Hour

### Wednesday, 10 June 2020 - Update, Road map, Tools, Current Enhancement Proposals
**16:00 UTC - Road map: CF 1.8, CF 1.9, and Onward (David Hassell) [Questions/Discussion](2020-Workshop/CF-meeting-2020-discussion-topics.pdf)**
* Review of CF-1.8
* Road map for CF-1.9
* The Future

**16:30 - Software Tools and keeping up to date with CF (Kevin O'Brien, Robert Fratantonio, Rosalyn Hatcher, David Hassell) [Questions/Discussion](2020-Workshop/CF-meeting-2020-discussion-topics.pdf)**
* CF Compliance Checkers
* A data model reference implementation

**17:30 - Breakouts for [Current Discussion Topics](#current-discussion-topics)**
* Four Zoom breakout rooms with Google Documents for Notes
  * **[Standard names](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1n6oM1aricNnwddUfaA28s3LHKVgGd_1J)** - [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/95579038370?pwd=d1lZOWJBZDlxTkM4U1lnYVA2empSdz09)
  * **[Cell methods](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/16nI5kuEuft1s2y53rLOjocswVGUwe06c)** - [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/5705037618?pwd=REtXNmtaNDdTNmE1dmZ0VFViTzd4dz09)
  * **[Figure for bounds](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1SP8fhITvMosXcnRWLGSRqACHCWxDkqQ2)** - [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/97592002298?pwd=Rjd3RDNPdzVzZm40R0JEa3R1S1BCQT09)
  * **[Mesh or boundary variable](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1cR5iWfXox4cgOomIr7CoICERj0OXuRsh)** - [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/99256914300?pwd=RkMyZExycWR2WGR6UFhxc3huMmwydz09)
 
**19:00 - Adjourn to Virtual Social Hour + [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/9636813552?pwd=VTFudW5iQ0M2VWFRSFpFV215YUZ4QT09)**
* Virtual Social Hour

### Thursday, 11 June 2020 - Current Enhancement Proposals, Wrap-up and Conclusions
**16:00 UTC - Breakouts for [Current Discussion Topics](#current-discussion-topics)**
* Four Zoom breakout rooms with Google Documents for Notes
  * **[Metadata handling (provenance)](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1rVxkdFzFuya7rF0VlSeCE_xqZ8RDWj78)** - [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/96292112820?pwd=dEgzZVNTU2ZObFZmV1N1b1VFQld3QT09)
  * **[Subsampled coordinates](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1lCibg2P8W9J-Aag0SxOcxIC2SFgnsoH_)** - [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/96533174273?pwd=aDFzSHlRbEJEVGNKUngwUmF3RXZpQT09)
  * **[CRS WKT](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1NU0P_2YQ-YevGiUc7PjiRtZ2MI04Qtio)** - [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/98950036908?pwd=WVNlVlZNRGJaWTU0aGJJVGNVaXpNZz09)
  * **[Moderation of proposals](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1_XSieZc9IewaFgjzLyuXHaltnb5tqZob)** - [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/94128853090?pwd=WWJKbC9oWVJZT3VybUtYYmVaOURkUT09)
   
**17:30 - Report out from Breakouts [Questions/Discussion](2020-Workshop/CF-meeting-2020-discussion-topics.pdf)**
* 5 minute summaries from each breakout topic

**18:15 - Wrap-up and Conclusions (Antonio Cofiño) [Questions/Discussion](2020-Workshop/CF-meeting-2020-discussion-topics.pdf)**
* Overall summary and Wrap-up
* Action Items and Decisions

**19:00 - Adjourn to Virtual Social Hour + [Zoom session link](https://eumetsat.zoom.us/j/9636813552?pwd=VTFudW5iQ0M2VWFRSFpFV215YUZ4QT09)**
* Virtual Social Hour

## Current Discussion Topics

* **Standard Names**
  * [Summary Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urPWngzDCuHTrfpA8nedGoRDVKXs5OmjqO8M6i3UZJM/edit#heading=h.uz8gofyci4rg)
  * [GoogleDoc](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1n6oM1aricNnwddUfaA28s3LHKVgGd_1J) for Note Taking and Report Out
  
* **Cell methods: "within"\|"over" "days"\|"months" and time axis (Section 7.4)**
  * [Summary Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urPWngzDCuHTrfpA8nedGoRDVKXs5OmjqO8M6i3UZJM/edit#heading=h.jykkruknxpn1)
  * [GoogleDoc](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/16nI5kuEuft1s2y53rLOjocswVGUwe06c) for Note Taking and Report Out
  * See [Conventions Issue #197](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/197)
 
* **Standard way to define subsampled coordinates**
  * [Summary Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urPWngzDCuHTrfpA8nedGoRDVKXs5OmjqO8M6i3UZJM/edit#heading=h.npjzrt8h11om) 
  * [GoogleDoc](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1lCibg2P8W9J-Aag0SxOcxIC2SFgnsoH_) for Note Taking and Report Out
  * See [Discussion Issue #37](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/37)
 
* **"mesh variable" instead of "boundary variable" for contiguous grid cells**
  * [Summary Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urPWngzDCuHTrfpA8nedGoRDVKXs5OmjqO8M6i3UZJM/edit#heading=h.7u2qc3amtkb) 
  * [GoogleDoc](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1cR5iWfXox4cgOomIr7CoICERj0OXuRsh) for Note Taking and Report Out
  * See [Discussion Issue #5](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/5)
 
* **Metadata handling through processes**
  * [Summary Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urPWngzDCuHTrfpA8nedGoRDVKXs5OmjqO8M6i3UZJM/edit#heading=h.4k5u5woia0ke) 
  * [GoogleDoc](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1rVxkdFzFuya7rF0VlSeCE_xqZ8RDWj78) for Note Taking and Report Out
  * See [Discussion Issue #33](https://github.com/cf-convention/discuss/issues/33)
 
* **Allow CRS WKT to represent the CRS without requiring comparison with grid mapping parameters**
  * [Summary Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urPWngzDCuHTrfpA8nedGoRDVKXs5OmjqO8M6i3UZJM/edit#heading=h.ao5tcxspvnmy) 
  * [GoogleDoc](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1NU0P_2YQ-YevGiUc7PjiRtZ2MI04Qtio) for Note Taking and Report Out
  * See [Conventions Issue #222](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/222)
 
* **Adding figure to paragraph "Bounds for 2-D coordinate variables with 4-sided cells" in Section 7.1 on bounds**
  * [Summary Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urPWngzDCuHTrfpA8nedGoRDVKXs5OmjqO8M6i3UZJM/edit#heading=h.wpbusqqe4vz2) 
  * [GoogleDoc](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1SP8fhITvMosXcnRWLGSRqACHCWxDkqQ2) for Note Taking and Report Out
  * See [Conventions Issue #193](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/193)
 
* **Moderation of proposals?**
  * [Summary Statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urPWngzDCuHTrfpA8nedGoRDVKXs5OmjqO8M6i3UZJM/edit#heading=h.jof6l6da7mbf)
  * [GoogleDoc](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1_XSieZc9IewaFgjzLyuXHaltnb5tqZob) for Note Taking and Report Out
  * See [Conventions Issue #151](https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/issues/151)

-----

**The organising committee**

Jim Biard, Dave Blodgett, Kevin O'Brien, Antonio Cofiño, Ethan Davis,
David Hassell, Jessica Hausman, Aleksandar Jelenak, Daniel Lee,
Jonathan Yu
